The George Municipality held a debriefing meeting on Monday morning to review the effects and implications of the storms which killed three people in the George area and wreaked havoc across the municipal area and surrounds since Wednesday.George Municipality Executive Mayor Alderman Melvin Naik said the municipality was saddened by the lives lost in the George region, as well as the seven people in the Knysna fires, and extended condolences to the families and affected persons. It was a tragic and frightening time. Ald Naik, who spent much of the past week visiting storm-affected areas, said he had no words to describe his admiration of and pride in the municipal officials across several departments who have been working relentlessly to manage the countless impacts of the storm for many days on end. I saw the circumstances under which our people had to work many of our staff risked their lives this past week, but they were committed to keeping our people safe, and restoring services as quickly as possible. We also had staff assist in Knysna, Sedgefield and Plettenberg Bay. Gold and silver cannot pay what our men and women did for our extended community, said Ald Naik.Below follows a list of recorded impacts on the George Municipal area since the early hours of Wednesday morning until the meeting at 9am this morning: POWER OUTAGESGeorge is still currently experiencing power outages due to lines on the ground in the following areas:For electricity complaints please contact 044 8019222 during work hours and 044 801 6300 after hours. Please note once a complaint has been made it is logged and will be dealt with as quickly as possible.FIRE UPDATEOne fatality reported in Silvertown on Saturday 10th June and 2 fatalities reported in Herold, Sunday 11th June following informal structures that burnt down. The George Fire Brigade are working on mopping up in the George area. The George teams were withdrawn from Knysna on Saturday evening . They were joined by a team of 10 firefighters from Pretoria yesterday to focus on extinguishing or removing any burning material near fires. The Fire Brigade has worked on a total of 40 veldfires , 8 house fires and removed 34 fallen trees.STREET CLEARING A team of 40 staff falling under Parks and Recreation Division have been in action since Sunday with the methodical clearing of streets with regards to broken branches and other debris. The public are requested to assist where possible with this task.HOUSINGMUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE DAMAGEGeorge Municipal Manager Trevor Botha expressed his heartfelt gratitude and appreciation for municipal officials selfless efforts to secure and contain the city. He also thanked volunteers and residents for their part in relief efforts, and assisting in reporting dangers and problems, and for clearing streets to improve traffic flow and minimise dangers. In times like these, our communities shine, said Mr Botha.He confirmed much of this week would be spent assessing damages and impacts, clearing, cleaning, repairing and rebuilding. We have identified strengths and weaknesses all of which will be reviewed to ensure the city become as disaster-ready as possible, said Mr Botha.