The time Nelson Mandela Bay residents spend in queues at both the Uitenhage and Korsten Traffic and Drivers Licensing Department has been lessened following repairs to seven Live Capturing Units (LCUs).Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Member of the Mayoral Committee for Safety and Security, Cllr John Best, said this important development will ensure that more people can be assisted on a daily basis. We used to service between 350 and 400 people per day with the three machines. Following the intervention, we will now be able to service up to 600 people per day. This is almost double the number of people which means queuing times will be cut in half. It is important to clarify that the Department of Transport is responsible for the provision and the maintenance of the LCU and Live Enrolment Units (LEUs), used to book appointments and to issue and renew drivers licenses. These units are outdated and the department has difficulty finding replacement parts for it, which affects our turnaround times. I continuously raised this matter with the department since we received numerous complaints from the public. The Department informed us that a new tender will be adjudicated in August. They also sent technicians this week in response to our continuous plight Nelson Mandela Bay, Humansdorp and surrounding areas to fix our machines. As a result six additional machines are now operational at the Korsten Traffic and Licensing Centre and another at the Uitenhage Traffic and Licensing Centre, Cllr Best added.Due to fact that not all eight Live Capturing Units being operational trained staff were deployed elsewhere.Acting Head of Traffic and Licensing, Andrew Moses, said since more machines are now available; the current staff complement will be supplemented. We will engage with those staff members, who are already trained, to ensure a faster turn-around time. We want this to be in place before the new tender is in place, said Moses.Caption:Acting Assistant Director: Licensing, Mirinda van Huyssteen, Acting Head of Traffic and Licensing, Andrew Moses and MMC for Safety and Security, Cllr John Best, addressing the media at a press conference this morning. Picture: Kupido Baron