THE Businesswomen s Association (BWA) Port Elizabeth honoured the region s six top businesswomen at the prestigious annual BWA Investec 2017 Regional Business Achievers Awards (RBAA), hosted at the Boardwalk Hotel &amp; Convention Centre on Tuesday night.Selected from a pool of 16 formidable finalists, the 2017 category winners are:A highlight on the annual social calendar of Nelson Mandela Bay, the glamorous event is the culmination of the RBAA selection process, which is audited and overseen by an independent panel of judges.The purpose of the awards is to pay tribute to the region s remarkable businesswomen who have achieved noteworthy milestones in their careers and businesses. The winners in each category are leaders in their respective fields, where they have crafted illustrious and diverse careers that have impacted on the social and economic wellbeing of Nelson Mandela Bay.BWA Port Elizabeth Chairperson Michelle Brown said the calibre of the winners for 2017 were outstanding. These awards continue to inspire me, particularly when you hear the amazing stories of determination and grit behind the successes of our finalists and winners. The RBAA offers a journey of personal growth and recognition to the winners, as well as incredible friendships and bonds formed amongst the finalists that last for years to come, Brown said. Investec Eastern Cape Regional Manager Jacky Buys said Investec, the main sponsor of the RBAA Event, was proud to be sponsoring this year s event again and would like to congratulate the winners in each category on their success. The Business Women s Association is by far the most influential association of business and professional women in South Africa. It pays special recognition to those women who have played a pioneering role in transforming our communities, our economy and our country. It certainly has provided us with numerous role models for young women starting out in business or professional life. At Investec, we like to recognize those people who have been Out of the Ordinary and have exceeded expectations. Our sponsorship towards this event reiterates our commitment to our region, Buys said.Guest speaker for the evening, producer and entrepreneur Basetsana Kumalo, delivered a powerful and inspirational message to the attendees who celebrated the evening with the finalists and winners.Image: RBAA WINNERS The winners of the BWA INVESTEC 2017 REGIONAL BUSINESS ACHIEVERS AWARDS are, from left, Nozibele Qamngana (The Ubuntu Education Fund),Kelly Ferreira (Khula Kids Playschool &amp; Homework House), Nomhle "Chinese" Tys (Royal HaskoningDHV (Pty) Ltd), Annette Lovemore (Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality), Riana Ferreira (Collect-a-Debt), and Cindy Jonker (Goldberg &amp; De Villiers). 