Situated in the quiet upmarket suburb of Humewood, in Port Elizabeth, the Kelway Hotel is the perfect choice for your conferencing and business accommodation needs.The hotel is perfectly positioned for business and leisure travellers seeking central accommodation in Port Elizabeth, being just a few minutes away from the airport and within walking distance of PE s more popular tourist attractions and beaches.The Kelway Hotel offers 63 en-suite rooms, conference facilities and secure parking. The fabulous Farriagers restaurant and bar serves amazing breakfasts, lunches and dinners. With its elegant style and welcoming staff, the overall tone of the hotel is warm and inviting.The hotel offers 36 luxury rooms, 25 standard rooms and two premier rooms for their guests. These newly renovated rooms are equipped with all the amenities for a comfortable stay including coffee and tea making facilities and individually controlled air conditioning and DSTV.Complimentary Wi-Fi is also provided so you can even work from your room without stress, and the individual private balconies finish off the rooms with both style and comfort.As for their conferencing venues, the Kelway Hotel has not only one, but two state-of-the-art, fully air conditioned conference venues with Wi-Fi to choose from. The Tanner Conference Room is a perfect spacious venue to host breakfast seminars, meetings, trainings, conferences or even motivational talks.The venue can comfortably seat 100 delegates in cinema-style, but can also be arranged in a Banquet, Schoolroom, U-shape and cocktail seating. Conference packages can be tailor-made to suit any budgetary requirements.The Tanner Boardroom is ideal for hosting smaller sessions - from interviews and training to executive director meetings. The venue can seat 30 delegates in cinema-style, but can be arranged in schoolroom style for 25 delegates as well.The hotel s restaurant and bar, the Farriagers, has a casual yet sophisticated atmosphere and has something to offer for everyone. The restaurants breakfasts, corporate lunches, candlelit dinners or merely a light meal on the terrace can be enjoyed while taking in the views across Algoa Bay.Pre-dinner drinks on the viewing deck often include sightings of frolicking dolphins or one of the bay s resident whale families. The Chefs make sure to use only the finest ingredients and offer a fusion menu of European and South African influences.The bar, with its train theme and original memorabilia, is the most popular place for many to relax and enjoy a drink and the ocean-views. The cellar features a number of South Africa s finest wines and beers, not to mention a number of imported beers in stock.To book your next stay, orconferencing event, email [email&#160;protected] or call 041 584 0638 or visit www.thekelway.co.za today.