Mthatha's largest shopping centre, BT Ngebs City, has begun the countdown to its second birthday on June 25 with the launch of a two-month competition that will see one lucky shopper walking away with a kitchen makeover to the value of R25 000. In May and June, shoppers who visit any of the mall s shops, restaurants or fast food outlets, and spend more than R300, will be eligible for the grand prize draw. BT Ngebs City general manager Lolo Sabisa said the shopping centre had earned its place in the Mthatha community over the past two years by adding quality of life and understanding the needs of local shoppers. As a major regional mall, we serve not only our Mthatha residents but also the people living in the surrounding rural areas, who come into town to do their big shopping. We aim to bring them the kind of variety and quality that is usually only available in big cities. Since 2015, shoppers have had access to over 100 big-brand clothing, grocery, homeware and other retail stores plus a wide variety of food outlets. The opening of Motion Fitness Health Club this year has rounded out BT Ngebs City s complete lifestyle offering. Sabisa said the centre was pleased to mark its two-year milestone by giving away a prize that represented good value and good times for its shoppers. A birthday is a time for celebrating with family and friends and food is always an important part of any celebration. That s why we ve cooked up this prize of a kitchen makeover, so that the winner can enjoy sharing a meal with their loved ones every day. Continuing the food theme, Sabisa said no birthday would be complete without cake and that the centre management team would be cutting the biggest birthday cake Mthatha has ever seen and sharing it with shoppers at the grand prize draw. He said this would take place at 1pm on Sunday, June 25, in the Woolworths Court. Three finalists will be drawn but only one of them will be the lucky one to take home the big prize of a new-look kitchen. To enter, shoppers must attach a valid till slip to their completed entry form and deposit it in one the entry boxes at the mall info desk or in the Checkers court. Image:BIRTHDAY CELEBRATIONS:BT Ngebs City Shopping Centre is giving away a kitchen makeover to the value of R25 000 to mark two years of trading in Mthatha on June 25. (Image: Supplied) 