The Border-Kei Chamber of Business, in collaboration with Buffalo City Metro (BCM) and the Buffalo City Metropolitan Development Agency (BCMDA), on Thursday officially unveiled a Call-2-Action Quigney site at the Garden Court Hotel, in Quigney, East London. The Call-2-Action initiative aims to clean the city and grow employment within the city and also aims to encourage recycling waste and attract businesses and more investors to the BCM.Addressing delegates at the launch on behalf of BCM Executive Mayor, BCM Portfolio Head, Councillor Helen Neale-May, said that the launch comes at a time when the BCM is facing a challenge of cleanliness. As BCM, we fully commit to this initiative and to making our city cleaner and green to attract investors and create jobs for our unemployed youth, said Councillor Neale-May.She added that the collaboration between the Metro and business will grow and develop the city. This initiative will also serve as the poverty alleviation in our Metro as the country is facing a great challenge of unemployment and poverty, said Councillor Neale-May.She concluded that the Call-2-Action is a great opportunity for youth to engage in waste management and sustainable employment.Also speaking at the launch, Border-Kei Chamber of Business Executive Director, Les Holbrook, said that the initiative aims to develop relationships between local businesses and the BCM. When investors want to invest to a city they check lots and cleanliness is one of the things, if the city is dirty, they move to another city to invest, said Holbrook.He added that, if all can all play their role effectively, the BCM can be a better city with great opportunities.As part of the initiative, Holbrook said parents are encouraged to help their kids understand recycling. Re-cycling is also important part of the initiative, we encourage parents to give school children recyclable waste to school so that we can collect the waste, and that will also be learning curve of better lifestyle to the kids, said Holbrook.Also speaking at the launch, from one of the partners, Garden Court Hotel, Ian Mackay, said that they fully support the initiative and hope it will attract more businesses into the metro. Investors will come and visit and if they find the city dirty they will move to other cities to invest their businesses, said Mackay. He added that everyone needs to work together in the initiative. We are fully behind and committed to this initiative, it has been one week it started in quigney already there is a great change and progress, said Mackay. Ward 47 Councillor, Vusumzi Njece, echoed him and said that the initiative will attract more businesses and create jobs for the youth. Beach front is dead and dirty, this initiative will make it more attractive and businesses will grow and so as investors, said Njece.