High school learners from Nelson Mandela Bay, who were selected to receive scholarships from the South African National Roads Agency s SOC Ltd (SANRAL) also had a chance to hear about the bursaries offered by the roads agency.SANRAL has been investing in the development of future leaders by providing the scholarship programme for the past eight years. Nationally SANRAL had an increase in the beneficiaries of high school scholarships from 172 in 2014/15 to 196 in 2015/16, with a commensurate increase in spending, from R2.37 million to R2.99 million.The half-day event was hosted at SANRAL s award-winning green building in Port Elizabeth on Saturday, 29 July 2017.The event was attended by SANRAL scholarship holders from grade 10 to grade 12, their parents, candidates from SANRAL s Centre of Excellence and senior leaders from SANRAL.The scholarship programme pays for school fees, school uniform, books and stationery costs. The scholarship also pays for additional mathematics classes at the Nelson Mandela University Missionvale campus where they attend the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Pipeline Project (STEM PP).Speaking at the event, were SANRAL s Centre of Excellence programme managers in training candidates, Coenraad Claassens and Lwanda Sigaji. Both are SANRAL bursary recipients. Prioritise your time properly and don t be afraid to ask questions, said Sigaji. Even though Sigaji was not a scholarship recipient she said the SANRAL bursary was a breath of fresh air for me and my family, it helped . Hard work pays. I ve worked hard to prove myself, she said.Claassens advised the learners to question why they want to become engineers. Have a clear picture why you want to be an engineer and hold onto it, he said. There is a big jump from high school to university. The workload is a lot different. It took me a year to get used to everything. It is important to remember that you have to get good grades in high school. As engineers we solve problems with maths and science, Claassens advised the learners.Miekaeel Ryneveld, 16 years old, a Grade 11 learner from Alexander Road High School, said he was very happy to have received the scholarship. I want to study engineering, I am just not sure what type of engineering, Ryneveld said. His maths average is 90%. I work hard and I get good grades. The scholarship is a big help when it comes to paying school fees, books and winter and summer uniforms, Ryneveld said.It is Ilke van Vuuren s dream to be a civil engineer. Van Vuuren, 17 years old, from Despatch High School is in grade 11 and says she loves the idea of building new bridges. I want to know how to build bridges and roads. Hard work takes a lot of work but is rewarded afterwards. There will be stumbling blocks but you must have faith all goes well, she said.Lauren Hayward a grade 12 learner from Brandwag High School says she loves science. I love how science extends into everyday life. Hayward has been accepted to study BSc in Computer Science at the University of Stellenbosch next year. SANRAL like any other big company has an IT department, Hayward said.Alison Adams from the Northern Areas in Port Elizabeth, who goes to Alexander Road High School, said the SANRAL Scholarship has assisted her through her Grade 11 year tremendously. I am very grateful. This has helped us financially. I am not an only child and I was very happy I could take the burden off my parents. I am very grateful for this scholarship .Adams has been part of the STEM project and discovered the scholarship and applied. This has motivated me to work so much harder. I make sure that I do my best in these activities and with my grades. If I commit to something I see it through, that s my motto. I am grateful for this event. Before listening to the project engineers in training I was going to pursue a career in science, but I am now considering pursuing a career in civil engineering, she concluded.Luzuko Mavela from Kwa Dwesi also learned about the scholarship through the STEM in Action project. He then applied and was awarded the scholarship.This was inspired by Mavela s dream to become a chemical engineer or a civil engineer. This has been a blessing. It has been more than a financial relief for my family. My parents can now focus their money elsewhere, he said. This has pushed me beyond my limits. It has motivated me to pursue my goals head on, said Mavela. I am involved in a number of activities including: drama and music. I just have to make sure I manage my time well, he concluded.Framesby High School Head Boy, Tiaan Coetzee is grateful for STEM in Action as it exposed him to the scholarship opportunity.Coetzee is interested in a career in mechatronics and mechanical engineering. I would like to study here at Nelson Mandela University, he said. I currently have rugby and cricket as my extramural activities. I however make sure my school work does not suffer. This scholarship has meant my parents are able to save for my university fees. It has helped me out with my current fees, books, sport equipment and school uniform. I would like to thank SANRAL for this opportunity. It really helps a lot. I really appreciate this opportunity, he concluded.Learners can apply for the SANRAL scholarship programme which supports academically deserving applicants in grades 10 to 12. The minimum requirements are: an overall aggregate of 75% - with at least 70% in mathematics and science and 65% in English.For more information visit www.nra.co.za. 