As part of its 20th anniversary celebrations, the Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC) hosted a stakeholders and networking session in Port Elizabeth on Friday morning.The session aimed to bring businesses together to discuss the challenges faced by businesses and entrepreneurs in the Eastern Cape during these tough economic times. This is a tradition of ECDC. Every year we call all our stakeholders, invite our CEO to come to talk to the stakeholders to see if we are carrying the mandate of the ECDC in the province, said Mlungiseleli Zilimbola, the regional manager of ECDC.Managers and owners of small businesses that have been involved with the ECDC gave their own testimonies on how the ECDC has helped them and what being involved with them has done for them.Testimonials were given by Kagiso Mchunu from Lebenyane Trading; Mlungisi and Siphokazi Gatyeno from MSN Services; Faadiel Sandam from Your Transport Travel &amp; Tours; Ayanda Lande from Ngubisini Solutions; Harri Herman from Cougar Clothing and Donevin Lesh from Equipt Consulting. All these small businesses are located in Port Elizabeth.Once the testimonials had been given the ECDC CEO, Ndzondelelo Dlulane, showed the delegates a multimedia presentation of future projects focused on different sectors with emphasis on youth and women owned business development. We started this year on a very bad note. We started with a downgrade and then a recession, so all the negatives are adding. Now this calls for business, and all of us to roll up our sleeves because we are the only people who will be able to reignite this economy and move it forward, said Dlulane. We need disruptive innovators. Not just ordinary innovators, we need disruptive ones to disrupt the industry, to come up with new innovations and new ideas. Those are the things that are going to help us now and push up this economy. Dlunane then proposed a number of ideas and presented projects that the ECDC believe will help boost the local economy and help local businesses.An emphasis was placed on the ocean economy and how businesses in the Eastern Cape must utilise the largest business opportunity at their disposal; the ocean and its inhabitants. Our role is to support and strengthen small businesses so that they can do their best and make a profit and create jobs for the Eastern Cape. 