Banking giant, Absa and the newly-named Nelson Mandela University (NMU), have joint hands into a three-year partnership, where bursary funding, amounting to R7-million, was handed over to 205 of the university s students at NMU s sports conference centre on Monday, 7th of August. NMU was one of the 21 country-wide beneficiaries of Absa s 2017 CEO Scholarship Fund, which saw 92 students receive bursary funding, valued at R5-million towards their 2017 tuition. In addition, a further 113 students, who owed an average of about R20 000 in tuition fees, had their debt valued at R2-million, relieved. Identified beneficiaries include academically deserving students in commerce, the humanities, engineering, science and technology as well as those categorized as the missing middle . Speaking at the handover, Absa Citizenship Manager, Andy de la Mare, expressed that the initiative was not aimed purely for Absa bankers or for their lure of future Absa bankers. We believe at Absa that we have a broader role to play in society than just providing needing products and services; we are talking about providing sustainable futures, de la Mare commented. This refers to economic, ecological and social sustainability, and we believe that there is interdependency between business and society, so what matters to society, matters to businesses. That s why we believe business plays a broader role, and to this length we developed our Share Growth Strategy, which looks at how business can play a meaningful role against challenges in societal issues, he added. Absa s Shared Growth Strategy focusses on three pillars namely Education and Skills Development, Enterprise Development and Financial Inclusion. No country can really develop unless its citizens are educated. Education is the most important weapon, which we can use to change the world, Absa Provincial Managing Executive, Tshiwela Mhlantla, expressed at the handover. A good head and a good heart is always a formidable combination, but when you add to that, a literate tongue and a literate pen, then you have something very special, Mhlantla added. Mhlantla said that the Absa CEO Scholarship Fund forms part of the Education and Skills Development pillar of the financial services group s Shared Growth strategy, through which it undertook to invest R1.4-billion in education and skills training between 2016 and 2018 across the African continent. The overall objective of the Absa Scholarship programme is to support social change and economic growth by contributing to the improvement of enterprise as well as financial and life skills of the next generation by awarding scholarships to disadvantaged deserving youth to help them realise their potential. As Absa we have disinvested in corporate investments we use to make, particularly in sport, and rechanneled our resources into our Shared Growth Strategy. Unless our young people are given a chance to access their right to education, the correct training methods or entrepreneurial opportunities, Africa s development and its potential will not be fully recognized and its young people may become a source of social and political instability, Mhlanta emphasized. An amount of R23.5-million has already been committed to benefit qualifying students for 2016 and 2017 in four of the major universities in the Eastern Cape, namely: Walter Sisulu University (WSU), NMU, Fort Hare University (FHU) and Rhodes University. A visible difference in the lives of thousands of young South Africans is being felt through the Absa CEO Scholarship Fund, unlocking education aspirations and helping the young to realize and reach their dreams, Mhlanta said. The investment in close to 450 students so far in the Eastern Cape, sits close to our hearts and Absa is a proud partner with NMU in making it possible for young people across its campuses to fulfil their academic potential. The 2017 Absa CEO Scholarship allocation is in partnership with 21 universities in South Africa and several others in the rest of the African continent amounting to a total R210-million. This will result in 3000 university students in South Africa, as well as across the ten different African markets, receive scholarships for the current academic year. Acting chief executive of the Nelson Mandela University Trust, Dr Denver Webb, welcomed the partnership, saying it was in line with the University s mission and vision. On behalf of the University and the Trust, we really welcome this partnership with Absa because it is assisting us in our efforts to widen access to higher education for academically deserving students, particularly from poorer communities. This partnership is in line with the University s mission and vision to widen access and provide quality higher education, Dr Webb said. Apart from the funding, other spin-offs of this partnership include opportunities for students to gain work experience and participation in leadership programs as presented by Absa. These include the support of 34 TVET colleges as part of the Department of Higher Education s Adopt a TVET program, strategic University support, focused on research and capacity development initiatives, School Governing Body training in partnership with the Department of Basic Education and Absa s Ready to Work Program. Absa has been active in social investment for many years and has partnered with the University on numerous meaningful projects to support the youth, during this time. Watch to get a view of the handover, which took place at the NMU Indoor Sports Centre Conference room