Situated at 12 Bird Street, in Central, Port Elizabeth, the PE St George s Club, generally known as The Club , is housed in a building that dates back to 1903, but which has since been restored to prime condition. The ambiance offers old world charm, arguably the best in town, where you are surrounded by a selection of original paintings and antique furniture. Secure parking is available to guests on a 24-7 basis.Should you not be aware, the Club recently celebrated its 150th anniversary - that is 150 years of serving the business leaders of Nelson Mandela Bay! After many changes of human, economic and physical environment, the Club remains passionate in continuing the tradition of being the venue for its day and age.A number of Function Rooms are available. For instance, the Elizabeth Room, generally referred to as the Dining Room, can accommodate up to 100 people, depending on your seating requirements. The President s Room offers a more intimate environment with seating up to 50 people. A spacious Bar, which in itself can comfortably accommodate 50 people, is available to serve the Function Rooms. All these rooms lead onto a beautiful courtyard which adds to the ambience.The Facilities are available during the day and in the evenings and are typically used for functions such as board meetings, seminars, sales presentations, media releases, weddings, birthday celebrations, cocktail parties and private dinner parties. The Club prides itself in the manner in which it tailors events to your needs. Function Room costs are competitive with presentation equipment being available at no additional charge.The Club is fully licensed and drinks are offered at Club prices. We are proud of our wine list which includes a selection of fine wines to satisfy all tastes. The Club has its own kitchen on site and is manned by a renowned chef and experienced kitchen staff. It should be noted, that in addition to the Function Room Facilities, the Elizabeth Room doubles up as a Restaurant and is the epitome of gracious dining with the attentive staff providing pleasant and expert service at all times. The Restaurant serves breakfasts and lunch on weekdays. The lunch menu varies from day to day with delectable choices to suit all tastes. The Club is well known for the family lunches which it serves on Sundays.Membership of The Club is optional and offers additional benefits:Subscription rates are currently R2052.00 per annum, inclusive of VAT, payable in two instalments in January and July. New members are charged pro rata from date of joining. By way of example, this will easily be recovered through the discounts applicable to members should you simply enjoy a Sunday lunch for two at the Club twice per month. Let alone the saving on function room hire (currently R1 350.00 per day), when you make use of the function room facilities. Herewith a few extracts from feedback recently received from clients:For further details, visit our website www.pestgeorgesclub.co.za or Facebook page www.facebook.com/PEStGeorgesClub.