Police in Jeffreys Bay are investigating a case of robbery after a 29-year-old bakery delivery truck driver was robbed of cash on Thursday morning , at around 6:00am. "It is alleged that three men armed with firearms accosted a driver of Albany Bakery delivery truck during a bread delivery in a shop in St Francis Street, Jeffrey s Bay," said police spokesperson, Sergeant Majola Nkohli. "A complainant alleged that the men approached the truck and pointed him with firearms and demanded his wallet. The men stole his wallet before fleeing on foot."No arrests have yet been made.In a separate incident, efforts to keep communities safe, swift response by members from Jeffrey s Bay SAPS, who received a complaint of an alleged suspicious vehicle paid off, when three men were nabbed, and an unlicensed firearm in Jeffrey s Bay on Wednesday. "At about18:30, police received a complaint of a suspicious silver Volkswagen Polo with Gauteng province registration numbers parked in front of a business premises in St Francis Street, Jeffrey s Bay," said Sergeant Nkohli. "The information indicated that the vehicle had three occupants inside, parked near a business premises for a while without any movement. "Police responded, searched the vehicle and recovered an unlicensed firearm."Sgt Nkohli said that police arrested the three men and seized both the firearm and their vehicle. "Preliminary investigation revealed that the firearm was stolen in Somerset East a year ago," he added."The police are looking at a possibility of linking the men with a Somerset East theft case. The suspects, aged between 27 and 31, will appear in the Humansdorp Magistrate s Court on Friday, on charges of possession of a stolen firearm and ammunition with a possibility of additional charges."Humansdorp Cluster Commander, Brigadier John Lebok, commended the members for their swift response, and urged residents to report any suspicious persons."It was highly possible that the actions of the members prevented a business robbery incident. A stolen firearm with five rounds of ammunition were recovered which translates to five lives saved," he said. 