Being a woman in South Africa can be tough during these unpredictable economic times. Not only do you have to contend with a wide gender pay gap, but more often than not, you are also the main breadwinner in your family.According to the World Economic Forum (WEF), the gender pay gap in South Africa is estimated to be between 15%-17% on average. This means that a woman has to work about 14 months to earn the equivalent salary that a man would earn in a year. For this reason women often bear the brunt of an economic downturn, as rising living costs increase the pressure on budgets and make it harder to get out and stay out of debt, says John Manyike, Head of Financial Education at Old Mutual.The 2017 Old Mutual Savings &amp; Investment Monitor (OMSIM) indicates that more than half (52%) of metro working individuals surveyed said that their income hasn t covered their monthly expenses at least once over the past year. Taking on a second job can help to reduce the pressure, but with the unemployment rate in the country currently sitting just under 28%, it s not that easy to secure a steady source of additional income. Even if you do, the best and most sustainable solution to your financial worries is to budget efficiently. It is crucial to have a sound and realistic monthly plan or budget in place to help you achieve your financial goals. A budget helps you to track exactly where your money is spent on a monthly basis and makes it easier to cut back on unnecessary and impulsive expenditure, explains Manyike.If you find managing your finances daunting, make use of the free online tools available (https://www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/transformation/financial-education/financial-education-programmes/on-the-money) or speak to an accredited financial adviser. Once you ve drawn up a budget, it will become easier to monitor and control your spending. How to draw up an effective budget: Remember that staying out of debt and becoming financially fit is one of the most empowering favours you can do for yourself and your family, Manyike says. 