The African National Congress (ANC) and the South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape held a successful bilateral engagement on Monday at James Canon Calata House.The meeting was between the Provincial Working Committees (PWCs) of both formations. The meeting was convened for the purpose of having a thorough going political engagement and develop a joint minimum programme, the parties said in a joint statement released on Tuesday.On the cold-blooded murder of Comrade Thozama Njobe:"The meeting condemned with the strongest contempt the cold-blooded murder of Comrade Thobeka Njobe, who was a Speaker of Raymond Mhlaba Local Municipality," described the parties."We wish to convey our heartfelt condolences to the Njobe family, the Raymond Mhlaba Local Municipality, the people of Raymond Mhlaba, the people of the entire province and the entire ANC led movement."We trust that the cold-blooded murder of Comrade Njobe is not linked to the factional battles and politics in the ANC, for that will be a detour on what our province has always been. The province has always been characterised by the culture of tolerance. We are calling upon the law enforcement authorities to move with speed in bringing the perpetrators of this atrocious act into book."The statement said that the meeting further expressed its sense of sadness on the untimely passing of Comrade Siphokazi Nkele, the speaker of Ngcobo Local Municipality after a short illness."Her contribution to building a National Democratic Society through a unified organisation shall forever be remembered. We wish to convey our heartfelt condolences to the Nkele family, the people of the Ngcobo, the Ngcobo Local Municipality and the entire congress movement," the parties added. On the alliance:The parties said that the meeting reaffirmed the alliance as a strategic centre of political power."That the alliance remains the backbone of our revolution and the bedrock in which our majoritarian character of our revolutions is anchored on. It is an alliance not only of independent formation but that of classes born out of struggle. "It is in this context that we agreed to strengthen the alliance in the province as it has been facing challenges in some of the regions. Our starting point of ensuring the functionality of the alliance will be to implement the resolutions of the Provincial Alliance summit and to attend to areas identified as hot spots," read the statement. On unity of the province:The meeting also congratulated the ANC Provincial leadership for convening a successful Provincial Consultative Conference and the Provincial Policy Conference."The ANC in the province led a more unified delegation to the ANC National Policy Conference, which was more focused on the content of the ANC NPC. The meeting was of the firm view that the ANC led alliance should use these past events as the basis in which the work of solidifying the unity of the ANC and that of the alliance should be anchored on," the parties said."The meeting resolved that the ANC should work to eradicate what appears to be the new subculture creeping in into the movement in general and the ANC in particular, that of lobby groups (factions) conducting themselves as parallel organisation."The lobby groups are now identifiable, with logos, slogans, paraphilia and programs that seeks to replace organisational programs. If the latter goes on unabated it will inevitable usurp the centrality of the organisation. These new forms of lobbying also anchors the building of the organisations around their preferred candidates which may breed personality cult."It is agreed that the ANC must, working with its allies, be more focused on stamping organisational authority and centrality. It must for its future and that of the people of South Africa eradicate factions in the organisation."On State Capture:The bilateral meeting condemned the corporate capture of the state by private business interests in general and Gupta syndicate network in particular."We are of the firm view that the capture of both the state and pockets of our organisations limits the capacity of the ANC headed alliance to discipline monopoly capital and transform the South African economy for the benefit of the working class. We are also aware that for us to defeat this tendency it require that we also close ranks against these acts even here in the province," the parties said."We are of the view that drastic measures ought to be taken against this venomous smash and grab led by the Guptas and their defenders. It is in this context that we support the establishment of an independent Judicial Commission of enquiry into the state capture, and that upon its conclusion of the actions taken must be to deport these Guptas and arrest their accomplices."Joint programme of action:The meeting agreed on the joint programme of action to be led by the both formations. This programme will include collectively campaigning for amongst other things:"The meeting was closed in high spirit with both formations committing to continuous engagements and to implementation of the resolutions," the parties said. 