Disgruntled drivers from Port Elizabeth's townships, including the Northern Areas, Motherwell, Veeplas and Zwide, who have been affected by governments ban of the transportation of school children on the back of bakkies, converged at Vuyisile Mini Square in front of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's offices at City Hall on Tuesday.Surprisingly, the protesting drivers were accompanied by school children from different primary schools in Port Elizabeth, who are also against the new law prohibiting bakkie drivers from transporting them to and from school.One of the governments reasons for stopping these drivers is the fear and safety of the children', but a learner ,who depended on the bakkies for transport, Sibongile Ndiyane (11), from Dumani Primary School disagrees with government. We are here to tell Trollip that we are happy with our bakkie transports, they take us from our homes to school, and we cannot take taxis because they are dangerous and the taxi drivers rape us, Ndiyane said.Zolani Nonzobe, who is one of the protesting drivers, told RNEWS; The parents support this strike, they want us to continue to do our jobs - judging from the children in front of us, that is the permission of the parents. Many successful people in PE used to depend on bakkies to go to school. Today, they are successful - we are not killing, but we are nursing the children that s all."He said that to address the carnage on the roads, government must instead focus on arresting illegal bakkie drivers. We want the government to work with us in stopping those, who operate illegally because they ruined our business and everyone has an idea that all the drivers overload children, abuse them and so on, Nonzobe said.Nokuzola Mgcokoca, who is also an owner of a bakkie, said what extremely makes her angry is when someone, who was speaking on the radio pleaded to the parents to stop using the bakkies, because they are busy trying to come up with a biggest punishment that they will give to the bakkie owners. Why would they swear so harshly and want to punish us, what have we done besides helping the children, who need transports. We are told every day that we must get up and do for ourselves, but now that they see we are doing they try by all means to stop us, government people must make up their minds fast and decide what they want from us," she described. These children that we transport are very young, they pee and vomit on their school uniform and we have to be parents to them and help them, who will do that now that we are being stopped. He wants to punish us, punish us for what for being parents. A Memorandum of Demands was accepted by Mthuthuzeli Siwa, the Manager a the Eastern Cape Department of Transport - Sarah Baartman region, on behalf of Mente Phakamisa, another Manager for the region.The protesters are expecting a response by the 1st of July.