The Coega Development Corporation (CDC) and leading Chinese automotive manufacturer First Automotive Works (FAW) South Africa, a R600-million assembly plant in Zone 2 of the Coega SEZ, on Friday donated 245 pairs of school shoes to learners at the Coega Primary School, which is situated at Wells Estate in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro.Coega CSI Manager, Mpumezo Ndabeni, said that the donation was part of their 67 minutes programme in honour of the late global icon, former President, Nelson Mandela - also fondly called Madiba. By this initiative, we are honouring the 67 minutes for Madiba - however, Coega is also investing in communities that it serves, Ndabeni said. Speaking at the same event, Shijie Liu, Assistant CEO of FAW SA and Plant Manager at FAW Coega Plant, said that the company is very committed to giving back to the community around their operations. For Coega Primary, this is the second time we have been donating to this school, because this school has been identified by the Department of Education as being one of the most disadvantaged schools in the area, Mr. Liu said. Addressing the media, the Coega Primary Principal, Jerome Maquena, said that he felt honoured that his school was part of the amazing initiative by the CDC and FAW South Africa. It s a privilege for me to be part of this whole programme - it is a wonderful honour to be chosen to be one of the beneficiaries for this project by CDC and FAW. I hope that the community and the school is going to respect and value what is being given to us, Maquena said.He also said that the leaners at the school come from disadvantaged backgrounds and it is very difficult for them to contribute to any fundraising. We are only benefitting from what the government gives us, this is a no fee school and it almost impossible for them to contribute to any fundraising. Today, the learners became very privileged and we are grateful to get these school shoes, Maquena added.Aphiwe Mkefa, 13, who was amongst the children that received shoes expressed his appreciation to the donators adding that they must continue with the wonderful work they are doing. I feel very honoured to have received the shoes because we come from very disadvantaged families. I want to say thank you to FAW and CDC may they continue to do what they do and even do more, Mkefa said.