As the workplace continues to change with workers and clients making use of new updated technology to communicate and manage operations, some HR &amp; Payroll departments still cling to outdated processes, arguing that it s the way they ve always done things, and they work for them. By resisting moving forward, some companies may see a business s outdated processes as a sign of weakness. The good news is that businesses can easily make adjustments that will bring their HR &amp; Payroll teams further into the 21st century and ensure they adhere to current best practice methodologies. Here are some effective work practices: Incorporate FlexibilityToday s new generation of workers expect flexibility in their work environment and working hours, whether that means being allowed to work from home or keeping an hourly schedule that better meets their needs, whilst still ensuring that they meet their obligations and responsibilities to their employers. You may not be able to offer the best salaries or the nicest office spaces, but you can win and retain employees with an HR team that is less focused on policies and more focused on employee harmony.Handle Employee IssuesEmployee disagreements are inevitable. If you have an HR team who can gracefully resolve them, you ll have a good shot at creating a positive work environment. Your HR team should be fully trained in conflict resolution, with the ability to work one-on-one with feuding employees to ensure everyone is satisfied with the outcome. Your HR employees serve as consultants to the rest of your staff, so it s important to ensure they receive regular training in how to properly manage your company s most important asset, your Employees.Simplify HR &amp; PayrollWhere human resources information management and record storage is concerned, the cloud just makes sense. Implementing a cloud-based HR &amp; Payroll system helps ease some of the stress associated with a growing business and its growing HR needs.Possibly the biggest benefit of moving portions of HR to the cloud is the ability to access work-related software or information from any device, anywhere, at any time. Adopting cloud-based HR &amp; Payroll solutions empowers employees, plain and simple, by giving them more flexibility to access information. Most importantly, the self-service aspect of cloud-based HR solutions eliminates the stacks of paperwork associated with basic HR processes. Employees can instantly and easily request days off, update their personal information, submit a claim, all from a multiple of devise types, such as laptops, desktops and mobile phones. Say goodbye to days spent going back and forth with contractors, consultants and customer service. With cloud computing, implementation is quick and painless. Many of the Payroll &amp; HR systems are designed to integrate with applications already in use. This makes implementation less stressful and it won t disrupt day-to-day business. In addition to saving time and money on implementation, cloud based applications also saves time, effort and money when it comes to a products continuous innovation. Automatic system updates and upgrades make it easy for cloud-based HR software to stay at the cutting edge of technological advancements. Frequently asked questions: The security of a company s HR data becomes the responsibility of the company who provides the data hosting services. These companies will have policies and procedures in place to secure their infrastructure and to ensure that storage and management of data meets world class best practice.By combining the right hosting partners, with solid architectural design and a leading edge technology stack the cloud can have a secure lining.For more information call LabourNet on 041 373 2994 or email [email&#160;protected] www.labournet.com 