For those traveling to Port Alfred on business, there is good news. You no longer need to have your business meetings in crowded coffee shops or be forced to request the client to accommodate you at their offices. MyPond Hotel, a beautiful 4-star boutique hotel situated along the banks of the Kowie River in the town, has since changed that.Operated by one of the most prestigious hotel management schools on the African continent, Stenden South Africa, the hotel s aptly named; The Grand Kowie Conference Centre is well-suited to meet your business needs and projects an image of confidence and trendy appeal.The Grand Kowie Conference Centre offers a spacious conferencing room that can accommodate up to 120 people depending on seating style, has a built-in projector and PA system, two large air-conditioners among other modern conferencing amenities. A trendy and private meeting room, called the Kowie Cabin Boardroom, which can seat up to eight people, is also available for those needing a more intimate setting.Besides great views over the Kowie River, the greatest advantage of the venue is its location. MyPond Hotel, which is part of the world-famous Mantis Collection, is situated right in the middle of Port Alfred, within reach of the town s shopping centres as well as its famous tourism attractions and is easily accessible from any direction.If an establishment can be judged by the glowing recommendations and honest praises it gets on platforms such as Trip Advisor, then MyPond and its conference venue, is among the very best in the Eastern Cape Province.Business Link Magazine publisher, Graeme Lund, once stayed overnight at the hotel on a business tour of the area. He later wrote; my expectations were exceeded when it came to excellent service and warm hospitality. The staff was very efficient, helpful and professional! For your or your guests post-workshop accommodation, he found that the hotel offers elegant accommodation options in its Riverside and Classic suites. All rooms were neat, stylish and had all the standard amenities like a double bed, tea/coffee station, Wi-Fi internet access, DSTV, a safe and a desk. En-suite, full bathrooms completed the offering.He said MyPond s Lily Restaurant can safely be considered Port Alfred s best. Neatly laid out in an open-plan format and tastefully-decorated, the restaurant and bar area is comfortable, minimalistic and sophisticated.Graeme also found their buffet breakfasts, lunches and dinners equally fantastic. New items, comprising of delectable starters, mains and even more delicious desserts, have since been added to their already exciting menu.To book your meetings, workshops or stays at MyPond, call 046 624 4626 or visit mypondhotel.com today.