President Jacob Zuma on Thursday afternoon responded to the questions and debates that were highlighted during the tabling of the Presidency Budget on Wednesday in Parliament.It was also an opportunity to discuss gender-based violence and violence against women and children in South Africa.Several opposition parties, including the Democratic Alliance (DA), the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and the United Democratic Movement (UDM), however, decided that they would not be present inside the Parliament for President Zuma s response.While the DA was present during the debate on Wednesday, the EFF absconded completely. The EFF has always maintained that they do not recognise Zuma as the President and will not be addressed by him.Unfazed, Zuma started off his response by openly recognizing that the 1st of June is international Children's Day. Children live longer due to improved medical care. The National Development Plan (NDP) is being implemented and government programmes comes from it, he told Parliament.Zuma then moved onto the topic of Radical Economic Transformation . The 53rd ANC conference took a policy decision to implement radical economic transformation. We are in fact, late in implementing radical economic transformation which we should've started in 2013, he described. Without radical economic emancipation, the fight for freedom is not complete. Only 10% of the top 100 companies listed on JSE are owned by blacks. We want economic transformation as a matter of urgency as government. In must reflect in big businesses that black people are majority. Zuma continued saying that an inquiry should be made into State Capture by powerful business people.His son, a business partner of the controversial Gupta family, as well as other cabinet ministers and senior executives at state owned enterprises, have been exposed as having unduly benefited from Gupta money in emails leaked over the past weekend.Zuma said that fighting crime has become an even more urgent matter, but that community members should assist police when possible.He then took the time to address statements that have been made by opposition parties on the state of South Africa. It's not true that South African is on the road to a failed state; that is a propaganda which is part of the problem. It's a problem that people come here to debate and ask questions, but are not here when we respond, said Zuma. I'm delighted that DA MP s seem to have been reading O.R Tambo speeches lately, saying that is good news. Zuma then went on to speak about the youth of South Africa. He said that the achievements of the youth must be celebrated during June; the month where young people are celebrated. He also stated that businesses should hire more young graduates as interns and into learnerships.The President also address the land issue. The ANC has taught me not to be a racist and I'll never be one. I do not hate white people, but let s sit and address the land question, within the law. I have many white comrades that I trust so much and some of whom even commanded me in the liberation struggle, said Zuma. We believe our Constitution, laws and this Parliament are good instruments to deal with the land issue. Work will now begin to implement government programmes. Please correct your rules and implement them. 