The families of three teenagers, two 14-year-old girls and one 19-year-old male, are expected to identify their bodies on Monday at the New Brighton mortuary, in New Brighton, Port Elizabeth, following a horror hit and run accident that occurred in Kwazakhele, PE, early on Sunday morning.According to the police, at approximately 01:30 on Sunday morning, a white Quantum minibus drove through a crowd of children that were having a "pens down" party in front of Eyethu Night Club in Njoli Street, Kwazakele. "The minibus ploughed into six children, killing the two females instantly while the one male was pronounced dead at hospital and three other male students were injured," Port Elizabeth police described. "The driver of the minibus did not stop and sped off." Police said that the group of about 1 000 children made use of about 50 minibus taxis to block the road and party and consume alcohol in front of the night club. "The police's POP Unit was called in to assist with crowd management at the scene after the accident. The three seriously injured children as well as the 19-year-old male that was pronounced dead on arrival were taken to Dora Nginza Hospital for medical treatment," police added. The Motherwell Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie has expressed his shock and concern that children are allowed to hold such parties at places where alcohol is consumed. "Schools and parents must be more pro actively involved in the lives of their children especially when school holidays approach. I have also instructed a full investigation into this accident to track down the driver who did not even stop after hitting all these children," he said. A case of culpable homicide was opened at Kwazakele police station. "SAPS are urging parents to come forward to identify the deceased and injured children. "Two of the four injured persons, aged 13 and 19, have since been transferred to Livingstone Hospital," police said on Sunday afternoon."The other two, aged 13 and 14 were discharged this afternoon from Dora Nginza Hospital."This afternoon the minibus was also found abandoned in Missionvale."According to the police, the owner of this vehicle was traced and assisted police in an attempt to trace and locate the driver."According to the owner, the vehicle was taken by the driver without his knowledge after it was supposed to be parked for the night," police said."Police are still looking for the driver and hoping to make an arrest soon."