Perhaps as a highlight to what has become symbolic of his Presidency, President Jacob Zuma again survived the eighth motion of no confidence brought against him on Tuesday - albeit by a slim margin. According to the final tally, 198 MPs voted to keep President Zuma in his position, as he concludes his terms both as President of the country and the African National Congress (ANC), while 177 voted to kick him out. However, the secret ballot seems to have done its job - the result shows that nearly 30 African National Congress (ANC) MPs voted for Zuma to be removed.A majority of 201 votes was required for the motion of confidence, which was brought about by the Democratic Alliance (DA) to succeed.The official voting in the no confidence motion kicked off just before 5pm as voting booths were brought into the assembly. On Monday, Speaker of the National Assembly, Baleka Mbete, allowed for the no confidence vote by secret ballot after opposition parties argued that voting by open ballot would prevent some African National Congress (ANC) from voting with their conscience.Even with voting by a secret ballot, the opposition parties - assuming that all their members vote to boot out Jacob Zuma, still need at least 50 ANC MPs to support them in order for the motion of no confidence in Zuma to succeed.Analysts still argue that whatever the outcome, things will never be the same in the ruling ANC, which goes to its elective conference in December. Addressing MPs ahead of the vote, DA leader, Mmusi Maimane, said that the President was unfit to hold the highest office in South Africa."We want to urge all members to say: Let us place the interests of the 58 million South Africans first."Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader, Julius Malema, said that the vote of no confidence was not against the governing party, just against its leader, Zuma."We want to urge all members to say: Let us place the interests of the 58 million South Africans first."We are not here today to remove a democratically elected government of the ANC, which was voted for by our people in 2014. Whether we like it or not, we must at all times respect the wish of the people and that's why we are here - to make it very clear that ours today is not against the ANC, it's against Duduzane [Zuma]'s father because Duduzane's father is the most corrupt in the country, said Malema.United Democratic Movement (UDM) leader Bantu Holomisa told MPs they had no excuse to not vote against Zuma because a secret ballot provides a safety net for them.According to Holomisa, We have to seize the opportunity to put the people and the country first. In this regard, let us vote against the abuse of power. The infamous intelligence report ... Let us vote against Mr Zuma, the chief architect of state capture. The ANC's deputy chief whip said the ruling party was committed to improving itself.According to Doris Dlakude, "We acknowledge our mistakes and are committed to correcting them. We aspire to be and to do right. ANC MP Pule Mabe called the motion of no confidence frivolous. Any serious motion brought against a president needs to be well researched and backed by substantiated and verified reports, not gossip and hear-say.," she said.On Tuesday, there were several marches across the country by both the supporters and critics of President Zuma.Watch the Port Elizabeth video here.Watch the East London video here.