DA Ward Councillor, Gustav Rautenbach, has announced that the severe fires on Saturday (10 June 2017) in the vicinity of the Churchill, Elandsjagt and Loerie Water Treatment, has caused the disruption of the electricity supply to these critical installations. By evening the electricity supply was re-established to two of the water treatment works, leaving Loerie without electricity up to now. The electricity supply was disrupted because approximately 1000 m of high voltage cables had to be replaced and has taken longer than anticipated. The electrical poles, cables, conductors, etc. are being replaced and replaced at this present moment. This means for five days, no water could be produced at the Loerie Water Treatment Works. 50 Ml of water has not been available for treatment and distribution to our customers. This means that 20% of the water of the NMBM is not available. The NMBM has been maximising the production of water from the Nooitgedagt Water Treatment works and then pumping this via the newly commissioned pump station. This activity has however resulted in the collective lowering of the bulk supply reservoirs of the NMBM of which Chelsea (90 Ml) is the largest feeding the affect area which is now empty as the areas list below are being affected now: Kwanobuhle, Rowallan Park, Kabega, Westering, Cotsworld, Sunridge Park, Framesby, Fernglen, Linton Grange, Gelvendale, Baywest Area, Reservoir Hills, Khayamnandi and the Van Stadens Gorge area. It is anticipated that by late afternoon the electricity supply will be re-established, but this will not mean that the water will then be immediately available to the customers because: The Loerie Water Treatment works is like a water factory that has to be restarted. The water will have to be pumped slowly (priming) into the pipelines to remove the air and to prevent any bursts in the pipelines. Summit Reservoir must then be filled and then the water must be transported about 50 km to Chelsea reservoir before in can be distributed to the customers. From this pipeline the water travels another 10 km to KwaNobuhle. The above activities will take at least five hours for the water pressure to return back to normal, but in certain areas it can take up to 24 hrs. Therefore for the next 24 hours: WATER MUST ONLY BE USED FOR DRINKING / COOKING OR MEDICAL PURPOSES