Wyzetalk, a mobile engagement platform, was named one of twelve finalists at this year s FNB Business Innovation Awards, which took place last Thursday night in Sandton. The FNB Business INNOVATION Awards 2017 aim to recognise and celebrate the efforts of high-impact entrepreneurs who have embraced many challenges to create world-class, innovative and scalable companies that continue to forge unique ways of doing business. Innovation has always been at the heart of Wyzetalk, not only in terms of our offerings and way of business, but certainly in the opportunities and growth prospects we offer our clients, said Gys Kappers, CEO of Wyzetalk. We wanted to create something really purposeful that could address the fact that 80% of organisations employees are disengaged from their work which leads to lower productivity and lower profitability. We set out to build out a solution that could re-engage employees and I am pleased to say that we have done exactly that. Wyzetalk has developed patented mobile, USSD and app technology that has enabled many businesses to communicate effectively and efficiently with their workforces no matter what mobile device they use and which demographic they are. Gathering real-time analytics, any communication and feedback to and from employees is instantaneous, can be incentivized, and allows the business to make critical decisions based on insightful employee feedback.The selection criteria for the FNB Business INNOVATION Awards is based on Endeavor s entrepreneur selection model, which caters for scale-ups. While there were a number of Business and Business - owner criteria for entry - the awards focus on businesses that are able to exhibit high-growth potential and the capacity to add substantial economic value by creating a number of high-value jobs. What s more they need to demonstrate real innovation that has the potential to change the way an industry operates locally and/or internationally.Wyzetalk engage with over 150 000 people every day across a number of sectors including mining, retail, FMCG, banking and restaurant chains. The company is forecasted to exceed 250 000 by year-end and achieve 15 20 million in sales this year. We are delighted to have been a finalist at this year s award as not only does it go a long way in recognising the strides we have made, but is testament to the leadership, innovation and passion we have for changing Africa s business landscape, concludes Kappers.