Damelin, a leader in private education in South Africa, walked away as one of the Coolest Colleges in the country at the Sunday Times Generation Next Awards held on Thursday, 11 May at Sandton Convention Centre Pavillion.Spearheaded by the Sunday Times, the awards celebrate brands that have a strong presence in the youth market. The survey, which was conducted by HDI Youth Marketeers, polled over 10 000 youth from both urban and peri-urban parts of the country.The awards, known as leading consumer behaviour and youth brand survey sets the industry standard for brands in the country. The results highlight the ever-changing patterns within the international marketing sector by exploring the shift from our current generation to the next.Chief Operating Officer for Educor s face-to-face brands, Kapil Jaggeth said that being regarded as one of the Coolest Colleges reinforces Damelin s aim to stay relevant and up-to-date for its target market. Since our turnaround strategy half a decade ago, Damelin has made outstanding progress in aligning the brand to our students. We have adapted unique and contemporary methods of learning such as our virtual classrooms and academic advisers to provide support to our students. Our core focuses are academic quality and service excellence and this year we have aimed to use these key drivers to enhance our student experience, said Kapil.According to GM Group Sales and Marketing at Times Media Reardon Sanderson, the Sunday Times Generation Next Survey continues to provide significant insight behind the youths brand choices in South Africa. He said that he is proud to be able to make this essential data available to the industry.Damelin Pietermaritzburg summa cum laude student, Nontethelelo Mzizi, said that she is extremely proud to say she has studied at one of the coolest colleges in the country. Damelin deserves to win this exciting title as I personally had a cool experience. Studying at Damelin helped me achieve the success I have today. Their smaller classes gave me the personalised attention I needed in order to excel in my studies. Well done Damelin. Nontethelelo congratulated Damelin on their win and said that she looks forward to furthering her studies with the campus in the future.For more information on Damelin, log on to www.damelin.co.zaCaption: Seen at the awards ceremony is Damelin Bramley, General Manager GK Reddy and Sales Manager, Ntuthuko Ngcobo, Damelin Centurion General Manager, Kerry Staple, Damelin Menlyn General Manager, Liza Rootman and Damelin Benoni General Manager, Thanesan Govender.